content/download/index.md, before:

---
title: "Download"
date: 2022-09-01
draft: false
---

{{< toc >}}


___
## eMoflon::IBeX

There are three ways to download **eMoflon::IBeX**:
1. The [pre-built Eclipse application](#pre-built-eclipse-application)
1. The [pre-built virtual machine](#pre-built-virtual-machine-vm)
1. The [Eclipse uppdate site](#eclipse-update-site).

We recommend the usage of our [pre-built Eclipse application](#pre-built-eclipse-application).

### Pre-built Eclipse Application

You can download the latest version of our pre-built Eclipse application from the [release section of our GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-eclipse-build/releases).

There are several versions available for **Windows**, **Linux**, and **macOS**:

- **Eclipse eMoflon user**: Version with pre-installed **eMoflon::IBeX** as plug-in. You can use this version to develop your own applications/tools that use **eMoflon::IBeX**.
- **Eclipse eMoflon dev**: Version without pre-installed **eMoflon::IBeX**. This one can be used to develop **eMoflon::IBeX** itself.

### Pre-built Virtual Machine (VM)

You can download the latest version of our pre-built virtual machine image from the [release section of our GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-vm/releases).

Unfortunately, we aren't able to release the whole OVA image as one file on GitHub. Therefore, you have to download all ZIP archive parts and extract them locally on your computer. You can find detailed installation instructions in the [README.md file](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-vm#usageinstallation) within the repository.

### Eclipse Update Site

You can use our [Eclipse update site](https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/) to install **eMoflon::IBeX** as plug-in: [https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/](https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/)

- Keep in mind that you have to use the Eclipse Modeling tools with a few plug-ins. Please check out the installation instructions in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-ibex#how-to-develop).


___
## eMoflon::Neo

You can use our [Eclipse update site](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite) to install **eMoflon::Neo** as plug-in: [https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite).

- Keep in mind that you have to use the Eclipse Modeling tools with a few plug-ins. Please check out the installation instructions in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite#emoflon-neo-updatesite).

Commit message:

Adds notice: >= Eclipse 2022-09 is required

content/download/index.md, after:

---
title: "Download"
date: 2022-09-01
draft: false
---

{{< toc >}}


___
## eMoflon::IBeX

There are three ways to download **eMoflon::IBeX**:
1. The [pre-built Eclipse application](#pre-built-eclipse-application)
1. The [pre-built virtual machine](#pre-built-virtual-machine-vm)
1. The [Eclipse uppdate site](#eclipse-update-site).

We recommend the usage of our [pre-built Eclipse application](#pre-built-eclipse-application).

### Pre-built Eclipse Application

You can download the latest version of our pre-built Eclipse application from the [release section of our GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-eclipse-build/releases).

There are several versions available for **Windows**, **Linux**, and **macOS**:

- **Eclipse eMoflon user**: Version with pre-installed **eMoflon::IBeX** as plug-in. You can use this version to develop your own applications/tools that use **eMoflon::IBeX**.
- **Eclipse eMoflon dev**: Version without pre-installed **eMoflon::IBeX**. This one can be used to develop **eMoflon::IBeX** itself.

### Pre-built Virtual Machine (VM)

You can download the latest version of our pre-built virtual machine image from the [release section of our GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-vm/releases).

Unfortunately, we aren't able to release the whole OVA image as one file on GitHub. Therefore, you have to download all ZIP archive parts and extract them locally on your computer. You can find detailed installation instructions in the [README.md file](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-vm#usageinstallation) within the repository.

### Eclipse Update Site

You can use our [Eclipse update site](https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/) to install **eMoflon::IBeX** as plug-in: [https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/](https://emoflon.org/emoflon-ibex-updatesite/snapshot/updatesite/)

- Keep in mind that you have to use the Eclipse Modeling tools with a few plug-ins. Please check out the installation instructions in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-ibex#how-to-develop).
- You need at least Eclipse 2022-09 to use **eMoflon::IBeX**.


___
## eMoflon::Neo

You can use our [Eclipse update site](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite) to install **eMoflon::Neo** as plug-in: [https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite).

- Keep in mind that you have to use the Eclipse Modeling tools with a few plug-ins. Please check out the installation instructions in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo-updatesite#emoflon-neo-updatesite).
