content/publications/index.md, before:

---
title: "Publications"
date: 2024-09-18
draft: false
---

Over the years, **eMoflon** has been applied in diverse application scenarios and domains.
In the following, we provide a collection of relevant publications.
If you are using or have used **eMoflon** in a project, publication, lecture, or similar, please contact us.

## List of Publications

### 2024
<!--https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8_9-->
<!--https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8_9-->
<!--https://www.springerprofessional.de/en/generating-training-data-sets-for-machine-learning-approaches-wi/50002264-->
- [**"Generating Training Data Sets for Machine Learning Approaches with GIPS"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8).\
Maximilian Kratz, Sebastian Ehmes, Marco Volle, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Using Application Conditions to Rank Graph Transformations for Graph Repair"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-64285-2_8).\
Lars Fritsche, Alexander Lauer, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.

### 2023
- [**"Advanced Consistency Restoration with Higher-Order Short-Cut Rules"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-36709-0_10).\
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Adrian Möller, Andy Schürr.

### 2022
- [**"Graph-Based Specification and Automated Construction of ILP Problems"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.4204/EPTCS.374.3).\
Sebastian Ehmes, Maximilian Kratz, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Local Consistency Restoration Methods for Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://tuprints.ulb.tu-darmstadt.de/21443/). \
Lars Fritsche.
- [**"A Precedence-Driven Approach for Concurrent Model Synchronization Scenarios using Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.18420/se2022-ws-005). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Koisol, Adrian Möller, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Fault-Tolerant Consistency Management in Model-Driven Engineering"**](https://doi.org/10.17619/UNIPB/1-1301).\
Nils Weidmann.
- [**"Human-in-the-Loop Large-Scale Model Transformations with the VICToRy Debugger"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.5381/jot.2022.21.3.a8). \
Nils Weidmann, Enes Yigitbas, Anthony Anjorin, Ankita Srivastava, Jane Jose.
- [**"Ensuring User Interface Adaptation Consistency Through Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-98388-8_17). \
Kai Biermeier, Enes Yigitbas, Nils Weidmann, Gregor Engels.

### 2021
- [**"eMoflon: : Neo - Consistency and Model Management with Graph Databases"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2999/bxpaper5.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Stochastic Graph Transformation For Social Network Modeling"**](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.11034v1). \
Nicolas Behr, Bello Shehu Bello, Sebastian Ehmes, Reiko Heckel.
- [**"Avoiding unnecessary information loss: correct and efficient model synchronization based on triple graph grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10009-020-00588-7). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Schema Compliant Consistency Management via Triple Graph Grammars and Integer Linear Programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00165-021-00557-0). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Automating Model Transformations for Railway Systems Engineering"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.5381/jot.2021.20.3.a10). \
Nils Weidmann, Shubhangi Salunkhe, Anthony Anjorin, Enes Yigitbas, Gregor Engels.
- [**"Concurrent model synchronisation with multiple objectives"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3449639.3459283). \
Nils Weidmann, Gregor Engels.

### 2020
- [**"GrapeL: Combining Graph Pattern Matching and Complex Event Processing"**](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-58167-1.pdf). \
Sebastian Ehmes, Lars Fritsche, Konrad Altenhofen.
- [**"A precedence-driven approach for concurrent model synchronization scenarios using triple graph grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3426425.3426931). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Adrian Möller, Andy schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"A search-based and fault-tolerant approach to concurrent model synchronisation"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3426425.3426932). \
Nils Weidmann, Lars Fritsche, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Schema Compliant Consistency Management via Triple Graph Grammars and Integer Linear Programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45234-6_16). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"A Model-Driven Mutation Framework for Validation of Test Case Migration"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58167-1_2). \
Ivan Jovanovikj, Nils Weidmann, Enes Yigitbas, Anthony Anjorin, Stefan Sauer, Gregor Engels.
- [**"Automating test schedule generation with domain-specific languages: a configurable, model-driven approach"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3365438.3410991). \
Anthony Anjorin, Nils Weidmann, Robin Oppermann, Lars Fritsche, Andy Schürr.
- [**"VICToRy: Visual Interactive Consistency Management in Tolerant Rule-based Systems"**](https://doi.org/10.4204/EPTCS.330.1). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, James Cheney.

### 2019
- [**"Efficient Model Synchronization by Automatically Constructed Repair Processes"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-16722-6_7). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"SimSG: Rule-based Simulation using Stochastic Graph Transformation"**](http://www.jot.fm/issues/issue_2019_03/article1.pdf). \
Sebastian Ehmes, Lars Fritsche, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Incremental Bidirectional Model Transformation with eMoflon::IBeX"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2355/paper4.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Lars Fritsche, Gergely Varró, Andy Schürr, Erhan Leblebici.
- [**"Incremental (Unidirectional) Model Transformation with eMoflon::IBeX"**](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-030-23611-3_8.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Patrick Robrecht, Gergely Varró.
- [**"From Pattern Invocation Networks to Rule Preconditions"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-23611-3_12). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Florian Stolte, Florian Kraus.
- [**"A feature-based classification of triple graph grammar variants"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3357766.3359529). \
Nils Weidmann, Robin Oppermann, Patrick Robrecht.
- [**"Consistency management via a combination of triple graph grammars and linear programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3357766.3359544). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Erhan Leblebici, Andy Schürr.

### 2018
- [**"Short-Cut Rules - Sequential Composition of Rules Avoiding Unnecessary Deletions"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04771-9_30). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Tolerant consistency management in model-driven engineering"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3270112.3275339). \
Nils Weidmann.

### 2017
- [**"A Look-Ahead Strategy for Rule-Based Model Transformations"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2019/me_1.pdf). \
Lars Fritsche, Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.

### 2014
- [**"Developing eMoflon with eMoflon"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08789-4_10). \
Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Synchronization of Models on Different Abstraction Levels using Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://tuprints.ulb.tu-darmstadt.de/4399/). \
Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"A Comparison of Incremental Triple Graph Grammar Tools"**](https://doi.org/10.14279/tuj.eceasst.67.939). \
Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr, Stephan Hildebrandt, Jan Rieke, Joel Greenyer.

### 2013
- [**"A Survey of Triple Graph Grammar Tools"**](https://doi.org/10.14279/tuj.eceasst.57.865). \
Stephan Hildebrandt, Leen Lambers, Holger Giese, Jan Rieke, Joel Greenyer, Wilhelm Schäfer, Marius Lauder, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.

### 2012
- [**"A Case Study Based Comparison of ATL and SDM"**](https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34176-2_18). \
Sven Patzina, Lars Patzina.

### 2011
- [**"eMoflon: Leveraging EMF and Professional CASE Tools"**](https://cs.emis.de/LNI/Proceedings/Proceedings192/281.pdf). \
Anthony Anjorin, Marius Lauder, Sven Patzina, Andy Schürr.

Commit message:

Adds GCM 23 GIPS publication (to appear)

content/publications/index.md, after:

---
title: "Publications"
date: 2024-10-10
draft: false
---

Over the years, **eMoflon** has been applied in diverse application scenarios and domains.
In the following, we provide a collection of relevant publications.
If you are using or have used **eMoflon** in a project, publication, lecture, or similar, please contact us.

## List of Publications

### 2025

- [**"Model-Driven Rapid Prototyping for Control Algorithms with the GIPS Framework (System Description)"**](https://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~eptcs/paper.cgi?GCM2023:3321) (To appear).\
Maximilian Kratz, Sebastian Ehmes, Philipp Maximilian Menzel, Andy Schürr.

### 2024
<!--https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8_9-->
<!--https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8_9-->
<!--https://www.springerprofessional.de/en/generating-training-data-sets-for-machine-learning-approaches-wi/50002264-->
- [**"Generating Training Data Sets for Machine Learning Approaches with GIPS"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-71874-8).\
Maximilian Kratz, Sebastian Ehmes, Marco Volle, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Using Application Conditions to Rank Graph Transformations for Graph Repair"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-64285-2_8).\
Lars Fritsche, Alexander Lauer, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.

### 2023
- [**"Advanced Consistency Restoration with Higher-Order Short-Cut Rules"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-36709-0_10).\
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Adrian Möller, Andy Schürr.

### 2022
- [**"Graph-Based Specification and Automated Construction of ILP Problems"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.4204/EPTCS.374.3).\
Sebastian Ehmes, Maximilian Kratz, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Local Consistency Restoration Methods for Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://tuprints.ulb.tu-darmstadt.de/21443/). \
Lars Fritsche.
- [**"A Precedence-Driven Approach for Concurrent Model Synchronization Scenarios using Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.18420/se2022-ws-005). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Koisol, Adrian Möller, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Fault-Tolerant Consistency Management in Model-Driven Engineering"**](https://doi.org/10.17619/UNIPB/1-1301).\
Nils Weidmann.
- [**"Human-in-the-Loop Large-Scale Model Transformations with the VICToRy Debugger"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.5381/jot.2022.21.3.a8). \
Nils Weidmann, Enes Yigitbas, Anthony Anjorin, Ankita Srivastava, Jane Jose.
- [**"Ensuring User Interface Adaptation Consistency Through Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-98388-8_17). \
Kai Biermeier, Enes Yigitbas, Nils Weidmann, Gregor Engels.

### 2021
- [**"eMoflon: : Neo - Consistency and Model Management with Graph Databases"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2999/bxpaper5.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Stochastic Graph Transformation For Social Network Modeling"**](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.11034v1). \
Nicolas Behr, Bello Shehu Bello, Sebastian Ehmes, Reiko Heckel.
- [**"Avoiding unnecessary information loss: correct and efficient model synchronization based on triple graph grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10009-020-00588-7). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Schema Compliant Consistency Management via Triple Graph Grammars and Integer Linear Programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/s00165-021-00557-0). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Automating Model Transformations for Railway Systems Engineering"**](http://dx.doi.org/10.5381/jot.2021.20.3.a10). \
Nils Weidmann, Shubhangi Salunkhe, Anthony Anjorin, Enes Yigitbas, Gregor Engels.
- [**"Concurrent model synchronisation with multiple objectives"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3449639.3459283). \
Nils Weidmann, Gregor Engels.

### 2020
- [**"GrapeL: Combining Graph Pattern Matching and Complex Event Processing"**](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-58167-1.pdf). \
Sebastian Ehmes, Lars Fritsche, Konrad Altenhofen.
- [**"A precedence-driven approach for concurrent model synchronization scenarios using triple graph grammars"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3426425.3426931). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Adrian Möller, Andy schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"A search-based and fault-tolerant approach to concurrent model synchronisation"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3426425.3426932). \
Nils Weidmann, Lars Fritsche, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"Schema Compliant Consistency Management via Triple Graph Grammars and Integer Linear Programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-45234-6_16). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"A Model-Driven Mutation Framework for Validation of Test Case Migration"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-58167-1_2). \
Ivan Jovanovikj, Nils Weidmann, Enes Yigitbas, Anthony Anjorin, Stefan Sauer, Gregor Engels.
- [**"Automating test schedule generation with domain-specific languages: a configurable, model-driven approach"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3365438.3410991). \
Anthony Anjorin, Nils Weidmann, Robin Oppermann, Lars Fritsche, Andy Schürr.
- [**"VICToRy: Visual Interactive Consistency Management in Tolerant Rule-based Systems"**](https://doi.org/10.4204/EPTCS.330.1). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, James Cheney.

### 2019
- [**"Efficient Model Synchronization by Automatically Constructed Repair Processes"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-16722-6_7). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"SimSG: Rule-based Simulation using Stochastic Graph Transformation"**](http://www.jot.fm/issues/issue_2019_03/article1.pdf). \
Sebastian Ehmes, Lars Fritsche, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Incremental Bidirectional Model Transformation with eMoflon::IBeX"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2355/paper4.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Lars Fritsche, Gergely Varró, Andy Schürr, Erhan Leblebici.
- [**"Incremental (Unidirectional) Model Transformation with eMoflon::IBeX"**](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007%2F978-3-030-23611-3_8.pdf). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Patrick Robrecht, Gergely Varró.
- [**"From Pattern Invocation Networks to Rule Preconditions"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-23611-3_12). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Florian Stolte, Florian Kraus.
- [**"A feature-based classification of triple graph grammar variants"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3357766.3359529). \
Nils Weidmann, Robin Oppermann, Patrick Robrecht.
- [**"Consistency management via a combination of triple graph grammars and linear programming"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3357766.3359544). \
Nils Weidmann, Anthony Anjorin, Erhan Leblebici, Andy Schürr.

### 2018
- [**"Short-Cut Rules - Sequential Composition of Rules Avoiding Unnecessary Deletions"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04771-9_30). \
Lars Fritsche, Jens Kosiol, Andy Schürr, Gabriele Taentzer.
- [**"Tolerant consistency management in model-driven engineering"**](https://doi.org/10.1145/3270112.3275339). \
Nils Weidmann.

### 2017
- [**"A Look-Ahead Strategy for Rule-Based Model Transformations"**](http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-2019/me_1.pdf). \
Lars Fritsche, Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.

### 2014
- [**"Developing eMoflon with eMoflon"**](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08789-4_10). \
Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.
- [**"Synchronization of Models on Different Abstraction Levels using Triple Graph Grammars"**](https://tuprints.ulb.tu-darmstadt.de/4399/). \
Anthony Anjorin.
- [**"A Comparison of Incremental Triple Graph Grammar Tools"**](https://doi.org/10.14279/tuj.eceasst.67.939). \
Erhan Leblebici, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr, Stephan Hildebrandt, Jan Rieke, Joel Greenyer.

### 2013
- [**"A Survey of Triple Graph Grammar Tools"**](https://doi.org/10.14279/tuj.eceasst.57.865). \
Stephan Hildebrandt, Leen Lambers, Holger Giese, Jan Rieke, Joel Greenyer, Wilhelm Schäfer, Marius Lauder, Anthony Anjorin, Andy Schürr.

### 2012
- [**"A Case Study Based Comparison of ATL and SDM"**](https://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-34176-2_18). \
Sven Patzina, Lars Patzina.

### 2011
- [**"eMoflon: Leveraging EMF and Professional CASE Tools"**](https://cs.emis.de/LNI/Proceedings/Proceedings192/281.pdf). \
Anthony Anjorin, Marius Lauder, Sven Patzina, Andy Schürr.
