content/neo/index.md, before:

---
title: "eMoflon::Neo"
date: 2022-09-01
draft: false
---

<!-- Copy-pasted from the old eMoflon webpage -->
{{< img src="/img/emoflon_logo_eneo.png" alt="" width="28%" >}}

**eNeo** supports model management as a layer over Neo4j, a fairly well-known graph database.
**eNeo** uses eMSL (the eMoflon Specification Language), a uniform modeling language for metamodeling and modeling, specifying patterns, graph constraints, rules, and triple graph grammars, all in the same uniform textual syntax with advanced support for modularity and reuse via refinement.
**eNeo** provides an export of models (with all referenced metamodels) to Neo4j, as well as an export of patterns, constraints, rules, and triple rules to Cypher, the query and transformation language used by Neo4j.
**eNeo** also supports an API to automate all these tasks programmatically.

<!-- The image has a slightly larger size compared to IBeX. -->

**eMoflon::Neo** is licensed open source under EPL 1.0.
Its source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo).


## Download

Check out our [download page](../download#emoflonneo) to download latest versions of **eMoflon::Neo**.


## Development

Check out our [development page](../dev#emoflonneo) to set-up your **eMoflon::Neo** development workspace.

Commit message:

Adds new eNeo content + adds link from IBeX page to getting started

content/neo/index.md, after:

---
title: "eMoflon::Neo"
date: 2023-01-30
draft: false
---

<!-- Copy-pasted from the old eMoflon webpage -->
<!-- The image has a slightly larger size compared to IBeX. -->
{{< img src="/img/emoflon_logo_eneo.png" alt="" width="28%" >}}

**eNeo** supports model management as a layer over Neo4j, a fairly well-known graph database.
**eNeo** uses eMSL (the eMoflon Specification Language), a uniform modeling language for metamodeling and modeling, specifying patterns, graph constraints, rules, and triple graph grammars, all in the same uniform textual syntax with advanced support for modularity and reuse via refinement.
**eNeo** provides an export of models (with all referenced metamodels) to Neo4j, as well as an export of patterns, constraints, rules, and triple rules to Cypher, the query and transformation language used by Neo4j.
**eNeo** also supports an API to automate all these tasks programmatically.

**eMoflon::Neo** is licensed open source under EPL 1.0.
Its source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/eMoflon/emoflon-neo).


___
## Videos

- **MDE Net training session** (2022-10) on YouTube: [Anthony Anjorin on **eMoflon::Neo**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zK1hRkVedvg)


## Download

Check out our [download page](../download#emoflonneo) to download latest versions of **eMoflon::Neo**.


## Getting Started

Check out our [getting started page](../getting-started#emoflonneo) to get started with **eMoflon::Neo**.


## Development

Check out our [development page](../dev#emoflonneo) to set-up your **eMoflon::Neo** development workspace.
